The insurance calculation for the Kharif season 2025 has begun,
but
a big question has arisen before many farmers in Maharashtra.
Some have received very little insurance amount,
some are showing pending, while
others have zero amount in their accounts.
Now let's find out why this is happening
.  Well then
how to solve this problem?  Let us first
understand what all this confusion is about, then we will
see the different options of where and how to file a complaint and yes, most importantly,
I will also tell you what is the most effective way to do this. Let us start with the
original question. What exactly is all this confusion?
What is the strangest thing? It is known that different farmers in the same village and in the same revenue
board
see different statuses. Some have zero, some have
pending, and some have a very small amount. This is why
all the confusion has
arisen among the farmers. But wait, there is
no reason to get disappointed right away. There are solutions to this. There are
many ways to file a complaint and now we are going to
look at the same options one by one.
In short, there are online portals,
your local agricultural officer, and there is also the option of
contacting insurance companies directly.
Let us
talk about online options first, but before filing an online complaint for a minute, the
first and most
important thing is to
know which insurance company is yours. For the
three districts of Beed, Latur and Dharashiv, it
is ICICI Laborard, and for all the other
districts, it is the Agricultural Insurance Company of India, i.e.
AIC.
This information is very important.  Because should
n't you complain to the right company? Now let's
see what facilities are available on the websites of both these companies. ICICI Lombard's
website has a live chat service called Ask Kriya,
where you can talk directly to the policy
status or register a complaint. While the
Agricultural Insurance Company of India (AIC)
website has a very good section called Kisan Mitra
.  It's very easy to find these farmer friends
.  Go to the AIC website and
click on Contact Us.  There,
select the last option Kisan Mitra.  Then select your state
and taluka. The
name, mobile
number, and email ID of your taluka representative will appear, meaning you
can contact them directly at the local level.
Well, suppose nothing happened online,
then what? Then the next option is to go to the government
office, you can also take help from them.  Here's
a sequence to remember when contacting us
.  To start with,
if you do
not get a satisfactory answer from your local agricultural assistant, then the next
step is the taluka agricultural office and if there is
no work done there either, then go directly to the district
agricultural officer. Okay, so we
have seen the online method and
how to go to government offices, but the
answer to all this is the most effective way. In fact, the answer is very simple. Instead of
going alone, five to ten farmers from different farms should
come together and try. The real strength lies in
unity.  Because when so many farmers
come together and ask questions, a lot of pressure is
created.  Then even the authorities
cannot ignore it.  Therefore, the
most effective way is for a group of five to
ten farmers to meet directly with the Taluka
Agriculture Officers and
ask them clearly about the productivity statistics in your area.  Let's now quickly
see what the essence of all this discussion is. The most important thing is how to
come together and create pressure. So what to
remember? First, identify your right insurance
company. Second, make sure to use
online tools like Ask Kriya or Kisan Mitra.
Third and
most importantly, instead of going alone,
meet the Taluka Agriculture Officers in a group because
remember, there is real power in a united voice.
Now that the way has been found, the information has been received.
The question is, will we
come together and raise our voices for our rights? This is
very important information for farmers. Be sure to
share it on your WhatsApp group.
Thank you.